.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug-report.md, before:

---
name: "\U0001F41B Bug report"
about: To help the developer act on the issues, please include a description of your environment, preferably a minimum script to reproduce the problem.
title: "[Bug] "
labels: "type: bug"

---

Thanks for participating in the TVM community! We use https://discuss.tvm.ai for any general usage questions and discussions. The issue tracker is used for actionable items such as feature proposals discussion, roadmaps, and bug tracking.  You are always welcomed to post on the forum first :smile_cat:

Issues that are inactive for a period of time may get closed. We adopt this policy so that we won't lose track of actionable issues that may fall at the bottom of the pile. Feel free to reopen a new one if you feel there is an additional problem that needs attention when an old one gets closed.

### Expected behavior

What you were expecting

### Actual behavior

What actually happened

### Environment

Any environment details, such as: Operating System, TVM version, etc

### Steps to reproduce

Preferably a minimal script to cause the issue to occur.

Commit message:

[skip ci] Modify issue templates to align with Issue Tracking RFC (#12898)
* Issue Templates Edits

Made changes to the issue templates to align with https://github.com/apache/tvm-rfcs/blob/main/rfcs/0093_Issue_Triage.md

* Added label tags' placeholder

* added back default labels

* edited format

* added the link to the label tag document

* added an example for Triage section

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug-report.md, after:

---
name: "\U0001F41B Bug report"
about: To help the developer act on the issues, please include a description of your environment, preferably a minimum script to reproduce the problem. Find the list of label tags [here](https://github.com/apache/tvm/wiki/Issue-Triage-Labels).
title: "[Bug] "
labels: "needs-triage, type: bug"
---

Thanks for participating in the TVM community! We use https://discuss.tvm.ai for any general usage questions and discussions. The issue tracker is used for actionable items such as feature proposals discussion, roadmaps, and bug tracking.  You are always welcomed to post on the forum first :smile_cat:

Issues that are inactive for a period of time may get closed. We adopt this policy so that we won't lose track of actionable issues that may fall at the bottom of the pile. Feel free to reopen a new one if you feel there is an additional problem that needs attention when an old one gets closed.

### Expected behavior

What you were expecting

### Actual behavior

What actually happened

### Environment

Any environment details, such as: Operating System, TVM version, etc

### Steps to reproduce

Preferably a minimal script to cause the issue to occur.

### Triage

Please refer to the list of label tags linked above to find the relevant tags and add them here in a bullet format (example below).

* needs-triage
