.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/ci-problem.md, before:

---
name: "\U0000274C CI Problem"
about: To help the developers act on these problems, please give us as many details of the CI failure as possible. Find the list of label tags [here](https://github.com/apache/tvm/wiki/Issue-Triage-Labels).
title: "[CI Problem] "
labels: "needs-triage, type: ci"
---

Thanks for participating in the TVM community! We use https://discuss.tvm.ai for any general usage questions and discussions. The issue tracker is used for actionable items such as feature proposals discussion, roadmaps, and bug tracking.  You are always welcomed to post on the forum first :smile_cat:

Issues that are inactive for a period of time may get closed. We adopt this policy so that we won't lose track of actionable issues that may fall at the bottom of the pile. Feel free to reopen a new one if you feel there is an additional problem that needs attention when an old one gets closed.

### Branch/PR Failing

Please provide a link to the PR that has failed to run CI.

### Jenkins Link

Provide a link to the specific run that has failed.

### Flakiness

Have you seen this multiple times in this branch or in other branches?

### Triage

Please refer to the list of label tags linked above to find the relevant tags to add.

Commit message:

added an example for Triage section

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/ci-problem.md, after:

---
name: "\U0000274C CI Problem"
about: To help the developers act on these problems, please give us as many details of the CI failure as possible. Find the list of label tags [here](https://github.com/apache/tvm/wiki/Issue-Triage-Labels).
title: "[CI Problem] "
labels: "needs-triage, type: ci"
---

Thanks for participating in the TVM community! We use https://discuss.tvm.ai for any general usage questions and discussions. The issue tracker is used for actionable items such as feature proposals discussion, roadmaps, and bug tracking.  You are always welcomed to post on the forum first :smile_cat:

Issues that are inactive for a period of time may get closed. We adopt this policy so that we won't lose track of actionable issues that may fall at the bottom of the pile. Feel free to reopen a new one if you feel there is an additional problem that needs attention when an old one gets closed.

### Branch/PR Failing

Please provide a link to the PR that has failed to run CI.

### Jenkins Link

Provide a link to the specific run that has failed.

### Flakiness

Have you seen this multiple times in this branch or in other branches?

### Triage

Please refer to the list of label tags linked above to find the relevant tags and add them here in a bullet format (example below).

* needs-triage
