.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/documentation.md, before:

---
name: "\U0001F4C4 Documentation"
about: Use this template to suggest additions and changes to the documentation.
title: "[Docs] "
labels: "type: doc"

---

Thanks for participating in the TVM community! We use https://discuss.tvm.ai for any general usage questions and discussions. The issue tracker is used for actionable items such as feature proposals discussion, roadmaps, and bug tracking.  You are always welcomed to post on the forum first :smile_cat:

Issues that are inactive for a period of time may get closed. We adopt this policy so that we won't lose track of actionable issues that may fall at the bottom of the pile. Feel free to reopen a new one if you feel there is an additional problem that needs attention when an old one gets closed.

### Documentation Title & Type

Include the title of the document (e.g. "Getting Started with TVM"), and the type of documentation (e.g. user docs, developer docs, tutorials)

### Additions/Changes Requested

If an RFC/discuss post exists, link it here.

Otherwise, specify what actions should be taken to provide additional clarity/readability/reproducibility to the document. Include code snippets from the previous documentation if applicable.

Commit message:

[skip ci] Modify issue templates to align with Issue Tracking RFC (#12898)
* Issue Templates Edits

Made changes to the issue templates to align with https://github.com/apache/tvm-rfcs/blob/main/rfcs/0093_Issue_Triage.md

* Added label tags' placeholder

* added back default labels

* edited format

* added the link to the label tag document

* added an example for Triage section

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/documentation.md, after:

---
name: "\U0001F4C4 Documentation"
about: Use this template to suggest additions and changes to the documentation. Find the list of label tags [here](https://github.com/apache/tvm/wiki/Issue-Triage-Labels).
title: "[Docs] "
labels: "needs-triage, type: doc"
---

Thanks for participating in the TVM community! We use https://discuss.tvm.ai for any general usage questions and discussions. The issue tracker is used for actionable items such as feature proposals discussion, roadmaps, and bug tracking.  You are always welcomed to post on the forum first :smile_cat:

Issues that are inactive for a period of time may get closed. We adopt this policy so that we won't lose track of actionable issues that may fall at the bottom of the pile. Feel free to reopen a new one if you feel there is an additional problem that needs attention when an old one gets closed.

### Documentation Title & Type

Include the title of the document (e.g. "Getting Started with TVM"), and the type of documentation (e.g. user docs, developer docs, tutorials)

### Additions/Changes Requested

If an RFC/discuss post exists, link it here.

Otherwise, specify what actions should be taken to provide additional clarity/readability/reproducibility to the document. Include code snippets from the previous documentation if applicable.

### Triage

Please refer to the list of label tags linked above to find the relevant tags and add them here in a bullet format (example below).

* needs-triage
