.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature-tracking.md, before:

---
name: "\U0001F527 Feature Tracking"
about: List clear, small actionable items so we can track the progress of the change. Find the list of label tags [here](https://github.com/apache/tvm/wiki/Issue-Triage-Labels).
title: "[Tracking Issue] "
labels: "needs-triage, type:rfc-tracking"
---

Thanks for participating in the TVM community! We use https://discuss.tvm.ai for any general usage questions and discussions. The issue tracker is used for actionable items such as feature proposals discussion, roadmaps, and bug tracking.  You are always welcomed to post on the forum first :smile_cat:

Issues that are inactive for a period of time may get closed. We adopt this policy so that we won't lose track of actionable issues that may fall at the bottom of the pile. Feel free to reopen a new one if you feel there is an additional problem that needs attention when an old one gets closed.

### This issue is to track progress for FEATURE NAME
- [ ] P1. Title of this piece of the feature (PR link if available)

### Triage

Please refer to the list of label tags linked above to find the relevant tags to add.

Commit message:

added an example for Triage section

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature-tracking.md, after:

---
name: "\U0001F527 Feature Tracking"
about: List clear, small actionable items so we can track the progress of the change. Find the list of label tags [here](https://github.com/apache/tvm/wiki/Issue-Triage-Labels).
title: "[Tracking Issue] "
labels: "needs-triage, type:rfc-tracking"
---

Thanks for participating in the TVM community! We use https://discuss.tvm.ai for any general usage questions and discussions. The issue tracker is used for actionable items such as feature proposals discussion, roadmaps, and bug tracking.  You are always welcomed to post on the forum first :smile_cat:

Issues that are inactive for a period of time may get closed. We adopt this policy so that we won't lose track of actionable issues that may fall at the bottom of the pile. Feel free to reopen a new one if you feel there is an additional problem that needs attention when an old one gets closed.

### This issue is to track progress for FEATURE NAME
- [ ] P1. Title of this piece of the feature (PR link if available)

### Triage

Please refer to the list of label tags linked above to find the relevant tags and add them here in a bullet format (example below).

* needs-triage
