docs/arch/device_target_interactions.rst, before:

..  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

..  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.


.. _tvm-target-specific-overview:

Device/Target Interactions
==========================

This documented is intended for developers interested in understanding
how the TVM framework interacts with specific device APIs, or who
may want to implement support for a new API or new hardware.

There are three main aspects that must be implemented for any new
runtime environment.

* The :ref:`DeviceAPI <tvm-target-specific-device-api>` class gives a
  handle to a specific device, and the API used to interact with it.
  It defines a common interface for querying device parameters
  (e.g. memory available, number of threads, etc.) and for performing
  simple actions (e.g. copying memory from the host, or between
  buffers on the device).

* The :ref:`Target <tvm-target-specific-target>` class contains a
  description of the device on which a function will run.  It is
  exposed both to the target code generators and to the optimization
  passes.

* The :ref:`target code generators <tvm-target-specific-codegen>`
  construct a :ref:`Module <tvm-runtime-system-module>` consisting of
  one or more :ref:`PackedFunc <tvm-runtime-system-packed-func>`, from
  an IRModule.

.. _tvm-target-specific-device-api:

DeviceAPI
---------

The ``DeviceAPI`` represents a handle to a specific hardware device
API.  (e.g. ``CUDADeviceAPI`` handles all interactions through the
CUDA framework.)  Most ``DeviceAPI`` methods accept a ``device_id``
parameter to specify which device should be accessed.  In Python,
these are typically accessed using the :py:func:`tvm.runtime.device`
function, which returns a handle to a specific device, accessed
through a specific API.  (e.g. ``tvm.runtime.device('cuda',0)`` gives
access to physical device ``0``, accessed through the CUDA API.)

.. _device_api.h: https://github.com/apache/tvm/blob/main/include/tvm/runtime/device_api.h

* Attribute queries - ``GetAttr`` allows different
  device-specific parameters to be queried, such as the device name,
  number of threads, etc.  The parameters that can be queried are
  defined in ``enum DeviceAttrKind`` in `device_api.h`_.  Not all
  query-able parameters are supported by all devices.  If a parameter
  cannot be queried (e.g. ``kMaxClockRate`` on Vulkan), or if a
  parameter isn't applicable (e.g. ``kWarpSize`` on CPU), then those
  queries should return ``nullptr``.

* Setting active device - ``SetDevice`` should set a
  particular device as being active.  If a ``PackedFunc`` generated by
  the target-specific code gen requires execution on a device, it
  should run on the active device.

* Memory management - Utilities for allocating and deallocating memory
  on the device.

  * Allocate data space - ``AllocDataSpace`` and ``FreeDataSpace``
    allocate and free space on the device.  These allocations can be
    provided as inputs and outputs to an operator and make up the
    primary data flow of the operator graph.  It must be possible to
    transfer data from the host to/from a data space.  The return
    value is an opaque ``void*``.  While some implementations return a
    memory address, this is not required, and the ``void*`` may be an
    opaque handle that is interpretable only by the device backend
    that generated it.  The ``void*`` is used as an argument to other
    backend-specific functions, such as ``CopyDataFromTo``.

  * Allocate work space - ``AllocWorkspace`` and ``FreeWorkspace``
    allocate and free space on the device.  Unlike data space, these
    are used for storage of intermediate values within an operator
    definition, and are not required to be transferable to/from the
    host device.  If a ``DeviceAPI`` subclass does not implement these
    methods, they will default to calling the corresponding
    ``DataSpace`` functions.

  * Copy data - ``CopyDataFromTo`` should copy data from one location
    to another.  The type of copy is determined by the ``dev_from``
    and ``dev_to`` parameters.  Implementations should support copying
    memory from CPU to device, from device to CPU, and from one buffer
    to another on a single device.  If the source or destination
    locations are on the CPU, the corresponding ``void*`` points to a
    CPU address that can be passed into ``memcpy``.  If the source or
    destinations locations are on the device, the corresponding
    ``void*`` was previously generated by either ``AllocDataSpace`` or
    ``AllocWorkspace``.

    These copies are queued to execute on a specific
    ``TVMStreamHandle``.  However, implementations should not assume
    that CPU buffers remains valid or accessible after the call to
    ``CopyDataFromTo`` completes.


* Execution stream management - Utilities for handling
  ``TVMStreamHandle``, which represents parallel streams of execution
  used to execute commands.

  * Create stream - ``CreateStream`` and ``FreeStream`` should
    allocate/free a handle to a stream of execution. If a device
    implements only a single queue of commands, then ``CreateStream``
    should return ``nullptr``.

  * Set active stream - ``SetStream`` should set a stream as being
    active.  While active, if a ``PackedFunc`` generated by the
    target-specific code gen requires execution on a device, the work
    should be submitted to the active stream.

  * Synchronize to CPU - ``StreamSync`` should synchronize a stream of
    execution to the CPU.  The call to ``StreamSync`` should return
    once all memory transfers and computations submitted prior to the
    ``StreamSync`` call have completed.

  * Synchronize between streams - ``SyncStreamFromTo`` should
    introduce a synchronization barrier between the source and
    destination stream.  That is, the destination stream may not
    proceed beyond commands currently queued until the source stream
    has completed all commands that are currently queued.


In order to be usable by the TVM framework, the new DeviceAPI should
then be registered with the following steps.

#. Create a function that instantiates the new DeviceAPI, and returns
   a pointer to it::

     FooDeviceAPI* FooDeviceAPI::Global() {
       static FooDeviceAPI inst;
       return &inst;
     }

#. Register the function to the tvm registry::

     TVM_REGISTER_GLOBAL("device_api.foo").set_body_typed(FooDeviceAPI::Global);

.. _c_runtime_api.h: https://github.com/apache/tvm/blob/main/include/tvm/runtime/c_runtime_api.h

#. Add an entry for the new DeviceAPI to the ``TVMDeviceExtType`` enum
   in `c_runtime_api.h`_.  The value should be an unused value greater
   than ``DLDeviceType::kDLExtDev``, but less than
   ``DeviceAPIManager::kMaxDeviceAPI``.

#. Add a case in ``DeviceName`` in `device_api.h`_ to convert from the
   enum value to a string representation.  This string representation
   should match the name given to ``TVM_REGISTER_GLOBAL``.

#. Add entries to the ``MASK2STR`` and ``STR2MASK`` dictionaries of
   :py:class:`tvm.runtime.Device` for the new enum value.


.. _tvm-target-specific-target:

Target Definition
-----------------

The ``Target`` object is a lookup table of properties about a physical
device, its hardware/driver limits, and its capabilities.  The
``Target`` is accessible both during optimization and code generation
stages.  While the same ``Target`` class is used for all runtime
targets, each runtime target may need to add target-specific options.

.. _target_kind.cc: https://github.com/apache/tvm/blob/main/src/target/target_kind.cc

In `target_kind.cc`_, add a new declaration of
``TVM_REGISTER_TARGET_KIND``, passing a string name of the new target,
and the ``TVMDeviceExtType`` or ``DLDeviceType`` enum value for the
device on which that target should run.  Typically, the target name
and the device name will match.  (e.g. The ``"cuda"`` target runs on
the ``kDLCUDA`` device.)  There are exceptions, such as when multiple
different code generation targets can run on the same physical device.
(e.g. The ``"llvm"`` and ``"c"`` targets both run on the ``kDLCPU``
device type.)

All options for a specific target kind are added with the
``add_attr_option`` function, with optional default values.  A
preprocessor can be added with ``set_attrs_preprocessor`` to define
any parameters that are dynamically based on other parameters or
queried from device properties.

This argument definition defines a parser that can unpack a string
description of a target.  This is done in the ``Target::Target(const
String&)`` constructor in C++, which accepts a JSON-formatted string
and is typically called using the :py:class:`tvm.target.Target` python
object.  For example, ``tvm.target.Target('{"kind": "cuda",
"max_num_threads": 1024}')`` will create a ``cuda`` target, while
overriding the default maximum number of threads.

In a code generator, the target properties can be accessed using
``target->GetAttr<T>(param_name)`` in C++, or with the
``target.attrs`` dictionary in Python.


.. _tvm-target-specific-codegen:

Target Code Generators
----------------------

The code generators take an optimized ``IRModule`` and converts it
into an executable representation.  Each code generator must be
registered in order to be used by the TVM framework.  This is done by
registering a function named ``"target.build.foo"``, where ``foo`` is
the same name as was used in the ``TVM_REGISTER_TARGET_KIND``
definition above. ::

  tvm::runtime::Module GeneratorFooCode(IRModule mod, Target target);
  TVM_REGISTER_GLOBAL("target.build.foo").set_body_typed(GeneratorFooCode);

The code generator takes two arguments.  The first is the ``IRModule``
to compile, and the second is the ``Target`` that describes the device
on which the code should run.  Because the environment performing the
compilation is not necessarily the same as the environment that will
be executing the code, code generators should not perform any
attribute lookups on the device itself, and should instead access
parameters stored in the ``Target``.

Each function in the input ``IRModule`` should be accessible by name
in the output ``runtime::Module``.

Commit message:

[Target] Add target_parser to TargetKind
This adds the `target_parser` as described in https://github.com/apache/tvm-rfcs/pull/71, which parses an incoming `TargetJSON` and produces a new configuration for generating the final `Target` object from.

Marks `set_attrs_preprocessor` as deprecated and errors if both `set_attrs_preprocessor` and `set_target_parser` exist together.

docs/arch/device_target_interactions.rst, after:

..  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

..  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.


.. _tvm-target-specific-overview:

Device/Target Interactions
==========================

This documented is intended for developers interested in understanding
how the TVM framework interacts with specific device APIs, or who
may want to implement support for a new API or new hardware.

There are three main aspects that must be implemented for any new
runtime environment.

* The :ref:`DeviceAPI <tvm-target-specific-device-api>` class gives a
  handle to a specific device, and the API used to interact with it.
  It defines a common interface for querying device parameters
  (e.g. memory available, number of threads, etc.) and for performing
  simple actions (e.g. copying memory from the host, or between
  buffers on the device).

* The :ref:`Target <tvm-target-specific-target>` class contains a
  description of the device on which a function will run.  It is
  exposed both to the target code generators and to the optimization
  passes.

* The :ref:`target code generators <tvm-target-specific-codegen>`
  construct a :ref:`Module <tvm-runtime-system-module>` consisting of
  one or more :ref:`PackedFunc <tvm-runtime-system-packed-func>`, from
  an IRModule.

.. _tvm-target-specific-device-api:

DeviceAPI
---------

The ``DeviceAPI`` represents a handle to a specific hardware device
API.  (e.g. ``CUDADeviceAPI`` handles all interactions through the
CUDA framework.)  Most ``DeviceAPI`` methods accept a ``device_id``
parameter to specify which device should be accessed.  In Python,
these are typically accessed using the :py:func:`tvm.runtime.device`
function, which returns a handle to a specific device, accessed
through a specific API.  (e.g. ``tvm.runtime.device('cuda',0)`` gives
access to physical device ``0``, accessed through the CUDA API.)

.. _device_api.h: https://github.com/apache/tvm/blob/main/include/tvm/runtime/device_api.h

* Attribute queries - ``GetAttr`` allows different
  device-specific parameters to be queried, such as the device name,
  number of threads, etc.  The parameters that can be queried are
  defined in ``enum DeviceAttrKind`` in `device_api.h`_.  Not all
  query-able parameters are supported by all devices.  If a parameter
  cannot be queried (e.g. ``kMaxClockRate`` on Vulkan), or if a
  parameter isn't applicable (e.g. ``kWarpSize`` on CPU), then those
  queries should return ``nullptr``.

* Setting active device - ``SetDevice`` should set a
  particular device as being active.  If a ``PackedFunc`` generated by
  the target-specific code gen requires execution on a device, it
  should run on the active device.

* Memory management - Utilities for allocating and deallocating memory
  on the device.

  * Allocate data space - ``AllocDataSpace`` and ``FreeDataSpace``
    allocate and free space on the device.  These allocations can be
    provided as inputs and outputs to an operator and make up the
    primary data flow of the operator graph.  It must be possible to
    transfer data from the host to/from a data space.  The return
    value is an opaque ``void*``.  While some implementations return a
    memory address, this is not required, and the ``void*`` may be an
    opaque handle that is interpretable only by the device backend
    that generated it.  The ``void*`` is used as an argument to other
    backend-specific functions, such as ``CopyDataFromTo``.

  * Allocate work space - ``AllocWorkspace`` and ``FreeWorkspace``
    allocate and free space on the device.  Unlike data space, these
    are used for storage of intermediate values within an operator
    definition, and are not required to be transferable to/from the
    host device.  If a ``DeviceAPI`` subclass does not implement these
    methods, they will default to calling the corresponding
    ``DataSpace`` functions.

  * Copy data - ``CopyDataFromTo`` should copy data from one location
    to another.  The type of copy is determined by the ``dev_from``
    and ``dev_to`` parameters.  Implementations should support copying
    memory from CPU to device, from device to CPU, and from one buffer
    to another on a single device.  If the source or destination
    locations are on the CPU, the corresponding ``void*`` points to a
    CPU address that can be passed into ``memcpy``.  If the source or
    destinations locations are on the device, the corresponding
    ``void*`` was previously generated by either ``AllocDataSpace`` or
    ``AllocWorkspace``.

    These copies are queued to execute on a specific
    ``TVMStreamHandle``.  However, implementations should not assume
    that CPU buffers remains valid or accessible after the call to
    ``CopyDataFromTo`` completes.


* Execution stream management - Utilities for handling
  ``TVMStreamHandle``, which represents parallel streams of execution
  used to execute commands.

  * Create stream - ``CreateStream`` and ``FreeStream`` should
    allocate/free a handle to a stream of execution. If a device
    implements only a single queue of commands, then ``CreateStream``
    should return ``nullptr``.

  * Set active stream - ``SetStream`` should set a stream as being
    active.  While active, if a ``PackedFunc`` generated by the
    target-specific code gen requires execution on a device, the work
    should be submitted to the active stream.

  * Synchronize to CPU - ``StreamSync`` should synchronize a stream of
    execution to the CPU.  The call to ``StreamSync`` should return
    once all memory transfers and computations submitted prior to the
    ``StreamSync`` call have completed.

  * Synchronize between streams - ``SyncStreamFromTo`` should
    introduce a synchronization barrier between the source and
    destination stream.  That is, the destination stream may not
    proceed beyond commands currently queued until the source stream
    has completed all commands that are currently queued.


In order to be usable by the TVM framework, the new DeviceAPI should
then be registered with the following steps.

#. Create a function that instantiates the new DeviceAPI, and returns
   a pointer to it::

     FooDeviceAPI* FooDeviceAPI::Global() {
       static FooDeviceAPI inst;
       return &inst;
     }

#. Register the function to the tvm registry::

     TVM_REGISTER_GLOBAL("device_api.foo").set_body_typed(FooDeviceAPI::Global);

.. _c_runtime_api.h: https://github.com/apache/tvm/blob/main/include/tvm/runtime/c_runtime_api.h

#. Add an entry for the new DeviceAPI to the ``TVMDeviceExtType`` enum
   in `c_runtime_api.h`_.  The value should be an unused value greater
   than ``DLDeviceType::kDLExtDev``, but less than
   ``DeviceAPIManager::kMaxDeviceAPI``.

#. Add a case in ``DeviceName`` in `device_api.h`_ to convert from the
   enum value to a string representation.  This string representation
   should match the name given to ``TVM_REGISTER_GLOBAL``.

#. Add entries to the ``MASK2STR`` and ``STR2MASK`` dictionaries of
   :py:class:`tvm.runtime.Device` for the new enum value.


.. _tvm-target-specific-target:

Target Definition
-----------------

The ``Target`` object is a lookup table of properties about a physical
device, its hardware/driver limits, and its capabilities.  The
``Target`` is accessible both during optimization and code generation
stages.  While the same ``Target`` class is used for all runtime
targets, each runtime target may need to add target-specific options.

.. _target_kind.cc: https://github.com/apache/tvm/blob/main/src/target/target_kind.cc

In `target_kind.cc`_, add a new declaration of
``TVM_REGISTER_TARGET_KIND``, passing a string name of the new target,
and the ``TVMDeviceExtType`` or ``DLDeviceType`` enum value for the
device on which that target should run.  Typically, the target name
and the device name will match.  (e.g. The ``"cuda"`` target runs on
the ``kDLCUDA`` device.)  There are exceptions, such as when multiple
different code generation targets can run on the same physical device.
(e.g. The ``"llvm"`` and ``"c"`` targets both run on the ``kDLCPU``
device type.)

All options for a specific target kind are added with the
``add_attr_option`` function, with optional default values.  A `Target`
parser can be added with ``set_target_parser`` to process
any parameters that are dynamically based on other parameters or
queried from device properties.

This argument definition defines a parser that can unpack a string
description of a target.  This is done in the ``Target::Target(const
String&)`` constructor in C++, which accepts a JSON-formatted string
and is typically called using the :py:class:`tvm.target.Target` python
object.  For example, ``tvm.target.Target('{"kind": "cuda",
"max_num_threads": 1024}')`` will create a ``cuda`` target, while
overriding the default maximum number of threads.

In a code generator, the target properties can be accessed using
``target->GetAttr<T>(param_name)`` in C++, or with the
``target.attrs`` dictionary in Python.


.. _tvm-target-specific-codegen:

Target Code Generators
----------------------

The code generators take an optimized ``IRModule`` and converts it
into an executable representation.  Each code generator must be
registered in order to be used by the TVM framework.  This is done by
registering a function named ``"target.build.foo"``, where ``foo`` is
the same name as was used in the ``TVM_REGISTER_TARGET_KIND``
definition above. ::

  tvm::runtime::Module GeneratorFooCode(IRModule mod, Target target);
  TVM_REGISTER_GLOBAL("target.build.foo").set_body_typed(GeneratorFooCode);

The code generator takes two arguments.  The first is the ``IRModule``
to compile, and the second is the ``Target`` that describes the device
on which the code should run.  Because the environment performing the
compilation is not necessarily the same as the environment that will
be executing the code, code generators should not perform any
attribute lookups on the device itself, and should instead access
parameters stored in the ``Target``.

Each function in the input ``IRModule`` should be accessible by name
in the output ``runtime::Module``.
