docs/install/index.rst, before:

..  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

..  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

.. _installation:

Installation
============
To install TVM, please read :ref:`install-from-source`.
If you are interested in deploying to mobile/embedded devices,
you do not need to install the entire TVM stack on your device,
instead, you only need the runtime, please read :ref:`deploy-and-integration`.
If you would like to quickly try out TVM or do demo/tutorials, checkout :ref:`docker-images`

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   from_source
   docker

Commit message:

Documentation Refactor - Stage 1
RFC: https://github.com/apache/tvm-rfcs/blob/main/rfcs/0027-formalize-documentation-organization.md
Tracking Issue: https://github.com/apache/tvm/issues/8987

Stage 1 of the documentation refactor reorganizes the docs structure,
moving files (without content changes) and adding new scaffolding to
generate the proper document tree.

It does not address naming, style, content, links, or other existing
content in documents that were moved. State 2 will address fixing these
issues with existing content.

Major changes include but are not limited to:

* Dividing the existing tutorials into two sections:
  * Tutorials
  * How Tos
* Moving all of the existing tutorials out of the `/tutorial`
  directory and into the more general `/gallery` directory.
* Breaking up how-tos into individual sections for more
  flexibility and more consistent rendering.
* Moving content into new classifications:
  * `/docs/arch` for architecture guides
  * `/docs/reference` for API guides and other reference material
  * `/docs/topic` for topic specific guides such as microTVM and VTA
  * Restructuring `/docs/dev`
* Adding a table of contents to the doc index
* Adding instructions on how to install using third-party tlcpack

docs/install/index.rst, after:

..  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

..  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

.. _installation:

Installing TVM
==============

TVM is still pre-1.0 release software, meaning that it is under active
development and is changing quickly. Because of this, it is best to
:doc:`install TVM from source <install/install-from-source>` to guarantee you
have the latest features and bug fixes. If you are interested in deploying to
mobile or embedded devices, you do not need to install the entire TVM stack on
your device. Instead, you only need the runtime and can install using the
:doc:`deployment and integration guide <deploy-and-integration>`.

If you would like to quickly try out TVM or run some demo and tutorials, you
can :doc:`install from Docker <install/docker>`, or install using the
third-party :doc:`TLCPack Python and Conda packages <install/tlcpack>`

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   from_source
   docker
   tlcpack
